                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


                                        Problem B
                                       Planning Tree
                                    Time Limit: 1 second
                                  Mem limit: 512 Megabytes
A new beautiful park has just been built in our city. Your team is now responsible for planting
trees in the park.
The park can be considered as a grid with 𝑁 rows and 𝑁 columns. The rows are numbered from 1
to 𝑁 from top to bottom. The columns are numbered from 1 to 𝑁 from left to right. Let us denote
the cell at 𝑖 𝑡ℎ row and 𝑗𝑡ℎ column by (𝑖, 𝑗).
Your team will plant exactly 𝑁 trees, such that in each row and in each column, there is exactly
one tree.
The entrance of the park is at cell (1, 1) and the exit of the park is at cell (𝑁, 𝑁); your team cannot
plant trees at these two cells. Furthermore, there must exist a path from the entrance to the exit of
the park such that a visitor only needs to move right or down. Obviously, visitors cannot walk
through trees.


            The following park is not valid, because column 3 has 2 trees


          The following park is not valid, because cell (1, 1) is not empty,
                            and there are only 3 trees

           The following park is not valid, because it is not possible to go
                  from (1, 1) to (4, 4) moving only right or down


                              The following park is valid


Please determine the number of different valid parks. Two parks are considered different if there
is at least one tree at different positions in the two parks.

Input
The first line of input contains a single integer 𝑇 (𝑇 ≤ 105 ) – the number of test cases.
𝑇 lines follow, each line contains a single integer 𝑁 (1 ≤ 𝑁 ≤ 107 ).


The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


Output
Print exactly 𝑇 lines, each line contains the number of ways to plant trees, satisfying all the given
conditions. As the result can be very large, please prints the answer modulo 109 + 7.

Sample Input                                      Sample Output
 3                                                 0
 1                                                 0
 2                                                 2
 3                                                 12
 4




The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
