                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


                                         Problem C
                                         Gold Miner
                                   Time Limit: 3 seconds
                                  Mem limit: 512 Megabytes
Mr. Phidang is a gold miner, and he is now at a gold
mine. He has a powerful mining machine, but it seems
heavy. Mr. Phidang is going to use the machine to mine
gold or other precious minerals (e,g. diamonds, silver,
etc.).
There are many types of minerals in the gold mine, and
Mr. Phidang has his own preferences over them. The
preference of each type is represented by a lowercase Latin letter, and the preference rank is
considered by its alphabetical order. For example, Mr. Phidang’s most preferable type of mineral
will be ‘a’, the ‘b’ type has a little bit less preferred, ‘c’ type is for defining even worse, and so
on.
The gold mine can be described as a sequence of contiguous minable slots. The following figure
describes the gold mine “ebadcab”.



                       e        b        a        d       c        a         c

Mr. Phidang can start mining at any slot that he wants. However, after starting the mining process,
he can only move to either of the two adjacent slots (left or right) to continue mining since the
current slot needs a unit of time to be refilled, and his mining machine is too heavy so he cannot
move far away. Given that the amount of mineral at each slot is unlimited, Mr. Phidang can move
back to the previous slots to mine.

Mr. Phidang is very greedy so he always wants to maximize his preference of the minerals that
he can earns at each step. This also means that Mr. Phidang wants to choose the string that has
the smallest alphabetical order.

Please help Mr. Phidang find the best starting slot and the way to achieve the best preference after
a certain number of steps. For example with the gold mine as “ebadcac”, the minerals that Mr.
Phidang earns after the 5 steps is “ababa”, which is the best way for his preference.




The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                     The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                             Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                       December 05th, 2021


Input
The first line contains the string 𝑠 of lowercase Latin letters – the gold mine. The number of
minable slots is not less than 2 and not greater than 100.

The second line contains one integer 𝑘 (1 ≤ 𝑘 ≤ 104 ) – the number of mining steps.

Output
Print the sequence of letters without spaces – the values of minerals in the order that Mr. Phidang
is going to mine.

Sample Input                                     Sample Output
 ebadcac                                          ababa
 5
 ccc                                              cccccc
 6




The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
