                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


                                         Problem G
                                          Parking
                                    Time Limit: 1 second
                                  Mem limit: 256 Megabytes
Today, Mr. Tipu has a thesis defense at VNU-HCM University of Science, so he has driven his
car to the University campus. The University parking lot is a line of 𝒏 parking zone. Each zone
has one meter in width, which fits one motorcycle. A car occupies exactly two adjacent zones of
the total width of two meters. The figure below illustrates the university parking lot.




Mr. Tipu wants to park his car in the parking lot, but some of the parking zones are occupied by
other vehicles. Additionally, there are a queue of 𝒌 vehicles trying to enter the parking lot in front
of Mr. Tipu. The vehicles in the queue when entering the parking lot will occupy any empty zones:
one for a motorcycle and two adjacent zones for a single car. In case there is no space left, all
the current vehicles in the queue leave the University and not occupying any zone.

Because the thesis defense time is approaching, Mr. Tipu is in a hurry. Fortunately, the people in
the queue are very nice, and they offer Mr. Tipu to enter the parking lot before them. However,
Mr. Tipu does not want to take advantage of that, so he wonders how many vehicles in front of
him that he would pass to enter the parking lot on time, given that he will be late definitely in case
there are no parking zones left that fit his car in the parking lot.

Note that the people in the queue may choose their parking zones for their vehicles imperfectly
that leave no place for Mr. Tipu’s car.

Given a parking lot of 𝑛 parking zones, some of which are occupied, and a queue of 𝑘 vehicles
(could be motorcycles or cars) apart from Mr. Tipu’s car, please help Mr. Tipu to identify, for each
𝑖 from 0 to 𝑘, whether Mr. Tipu can park his car or not, in case he enters the parking lot after the
first 𝑖 vehicles in the queue.




The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                       The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                               Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                  University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                         December 05th, 2021


Input
There are several tests in each test case.

The first line contains a single integer 𝑡 – the number of tests in the input (1 ≤ 𝑡 ≤ 50 000).

Each test consists of two lines.

The first of these two lines is a string of 𝑛 characters (1 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 105 ), which can be ‘.’ or ‘X’.
The 𝑖 𝑡ℎ character denotes the status of the 𝑖 𝑡ℎ zone: ‘.’ for empty and ‘X’ for occupied.

The second of the two lines consist of 𝑘 characters (1 ≤ 𝑘 ≤ 𝑛), which can be ‘M’ or ‘C’,
denoting a motorcycle or a car, respectively. The first character represents the first vehicle at the
head of the queue and the last character is at the tail.

Output
The output contains 𝑡 lines. Each line contains 𝑘 + 1 characters, which can be ‘Y’ or ‘N’. For
each 𝑖 from 0 to 𝑘 print ‘Y’, if Mr. Tipu can find a parking zone for his car, entering after the
first 𝑖 vehicles in the queue, no matter which zones they occupy, and print ‘N’ otherwise.

Sample input                                      Sample output
 1                                                 YNN
 XXXX..X.XXXX.X
 MM
 3                                                 YYYNN
 ......                                            YNNN
 MMMC                                              YYNNN
 .X..X.
 MMM
 ......
 CCCM

Explanation
In the first sample, Mr. Tipu can park his car in the two empty parking zones in case he enter the
parking lot first. Otherwise, the first motorcycle in the queue occupies one of the empty zones, so
he will not be able to park his car.

In the test of the second sample, the first three motorcycles could park in the following way:
“M.M.M.”, then Mr. Tipu will not be able to fine a two adjacent parking zones to park his car.



The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
