                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


                                        Problem D
                                       Puzzle Pieces
                                  Time Limit: 2 seconds
                                 Mem limit: 512 Megabytes
You are given 𝑛 pieces of 1 × 𝑎 puzzle (one dimensional puzzle) as shown in the figure below.




Each piece has two heads which can be one of three types: “in”, “out”, or “none”.
    The “in” type means that the border of the head is concave.
    The “out” type describe a convex border.
    The “none” type denotes a straight border.

For example,
                             This piece has two “out” heads, or two convex heads.

                             This piece has an “in” head on the left and a “none” head
                             on the other side.

There are a few rules for you:
   1. You cannot reverse these pieces, in other words, you cannot swap left and right borders of
       any piece.
   2. Any “in” head can be connected with any “out” head and vice versa.
   3. You cannot connect pieces that have “none” heads.

You have to connect many pieces (possibly one), one after another, in order to achieve a single
large piece of length 𝐿. Both heads of this combined piece must be “none” type. You wonder how
many different sets of pieces that you can build up the large piece of length 𝐿, using all the pieces
in the set. Because the number of different sets could be large, you have to calculate it modulo
109 + 7.

Note: You should count the number of sets of pieces, not the number of ways of connecting them.


The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


Input
The first line contains two integers 𝑛 and 𝐿 – the number of puzzle pieces and the desire length of
the large piece (1 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 300, 1 ≤ 𝐿 ≤ 300).

The following 𝑛 lines contain the description of the pieces. Each line contains an integer and two
strings 𝑎𝑖 , 𝑙𝑖 and 𝑟𝑖 — the length of the piece, type of its left head, and type of its right head,
respectively (1 ≤ 𝑎𝑖 ≤ 𝐿; 𝑙𝑖 , 𝑟𝑖 ∈ {“in”, “out”, “none”}). String “in” denotes concave border,
“out” — convex, “none” — straight.

Output
Output a single integer — the number of sets of pieces, such that you can build the desired large
piece using the given pieces, modulo 109 + 7.

Sample Input                                      Sample Output
 5 10                                              3
 1 out out
 6 none in
 10 none none
 4 out none
 3 in none
 4 5                                               1
 1 none out
 1 in out
 2 in out
 1 in none

Explain
The following figure explains the first sample test. There are three sets of pieces as illustrated in
the figure.




The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Programming Contest
