                                      The 2021 ICPC Vietnam
                              Southern Provincial Programming Contest
                                 University of Science, VNU-HCM
                                        December 05th, 2021


                                         Problem K
                                        Squid Game
                                    Time limit: 2 seconds
                                  Mem limit: 256 Megabytes
There are 𝑛 players attending the “Squid Game” version in a secret facility.
Each player is placed in a one-dimension space. There is one assassin
player in the game. The players and the assassin can move at a speed of 1
meter per second, but only one player can move at a time. If the assassin
and any players are at the same point at the same time, those players will
be eliminated.
There is a shelter that can accommodate any number of players, but the assassin will not pass. If
any player gets to the shelter and there is no assassin there, then he is saved.
You are the one that knows the map and all players’ positions as well as the position of the assassin.
You need to find the maximum number of players that you can be guaranteed to save. Every
second, you can give a movement order to only one player.

Input
The first line contains a number 𝑛 (1 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 105 ) – the number of players.
The second line contains 𝑛 integers 𝑥1 , 𝑥2 , … 𝑥𝑛 ( |𝑥𝑖 | ≤ 109 ) – the coordinates of players.
The third line contains a single integer 𝑦 (|𝑦| ≤ 109 ) – the coordinate of the assassin in meters.
The last line contains a single integer 𝑧 (|𝑧| ≤ 109 ) – the coordinate of the shelter.

Output
Print a single number - the maximum number of players that you are guaranteed to save.

Sample input                                       Sample output
 3                                                  1
 -1 1 3
 2
 0
 3                                                  2
 0 0 9
 10
 1


The 2021 ICPC Vietnam Southern Provincial Contest                                           1|Page
